this movement is going to change because
it has to change
yoga pants can't be the future of this
movement now saying it shouldn't be
saying it can't be bicycles and beaches
and [ __ ] cannot be the future of
this movie it won't be because in can't
see and as veganism grows as veganism
becomes a crucial part of ecology in
general we're gonna get people who are
sincerely interested in making a
difference and who care more about
making a real-world difference than they
do about your lease hey what's up this
video is going to talk about the
specific issue of killing cockroaches
and why it matters but in preface I just
want to ground this in a sense of
realism as to what the situation
globally really is right now take a look
at this chart I'll try to leave this on
screen long enough that you can pause it
if you want to and get a good long look
I made these charts myself I downloaded
the statistics directly from United
Nations organization called the FAO the
Food and Agriculture Organization I put
in the numbers I also put together this
particular illustration if you're
watching this you can probably remember
the year 2000 maybe for a few teenagers
who watch my channel it's a distant
memory or they can't remember at all but
the year 2000 is not ancient history
ok the amount of meat being produced in
the United States in Asia in the world
in total has only increased and it has
increased dramatically since the year
2000 ever since I've been involved with
veganism online I have heard what I
would consider harebrained statements
from my fellow vegans about how we're
winning we're transforming the world how
this is an era of a new awareness etc
etc and the statistics do not back that
up
we have lived through an era of the
massive expansion of industrialized meat
agriculture ok we have lived through an
era of the intensification of the
exploitation of animals on a scale that
is almost impossible to imagine that's
our generation not our parents not our
grandparents it's us now all right you
want to kid yourself into thinking this
is the Age of Aquarius if you want some
kind of hippie ego trip that we're
members of a wonderful generation that's
turning things around that's not true
take a careful look at the yellow line
showing the amount of chicken being
slaughtered in the United States there
is a dip in the line around the year
2008 it might have lagged one year might
be there in 2009 okay that didn't happen
because of street protests from vegans
it didn't happen for any reason like
that happened because of the financial
crisis stock market crash in the United
States especially a collapse in real
estate prices back in those years 2007 8
2007 2008 2009 right there was an
economic bubble in those years that
burst ok we as vegans as a tiny ethical
minority have never had an impact
comparable to that one year's economic
crisis we are not bringing this line
down now if you read the reports in the
Food and Agriculture Organization read
the actual reports the actual research
articles not the propaganda other vegans
make out of it you will see that they
expect the world's total meat production
is going to continue to increase by
another 70% ok some places like the
United States may be reaching their
limit where they just can't economically
produce that much more meat because
they're producing such an enormous
amount already and also places the
united states now have to compete more
and more with other countries with
cheaper sources of meat that's a real
reason why meat production may decline
in the US or may at least flatten out
now simply because Americans
may be able to import more meat from
Mexico Argentina Colombia Brazil I don't
know that's part of the negotiations
over the trans-pacific partnership and
other trade agreements we may get more
of a globalized market for meat and that
will have impacts that'll have impacts
on a scale much larger than our tiny
ethically defined movement okay this is
reality facing up to this reality
doesn't make you ante vegan it's the
most essential part of being Pro vegan
all right and the experience I've had
with running this channel and before
just when I was at a blog was just the
Internet it is hilarious to me that
people will attack you for not basically
repeating propaganda half-truths and
lies whether it's about the supposed
success the vegan movement itself or
whether it's about how much water a
vegan diet supposedly saves I had an
earlier video on that here and people
were shocked guess what
pork is actually quite water efficient
guess what the main savings of water you
see your diet as a vegan is eating
grains not fruit and you can have a diet
that consists of grains and pork that
uses less water than a vegan diet that
eats a lot of luxury fruit nuts or raw
vegan diet math is not that simple
people really complain them in the video
why would you say this because it's true
because it's important because it's
salient and meaningful to what we do and
because my beliefs are not based on a
lie all right I'm not here selling you a
lie I'm not here selling you false hope
I'm here to present real hope and real
problems and basically if we can't even
talk about the problems then we're never
going to get to the stage of talking
about solutions or of actually bringing
about solutions and of course that's
depressing to me that's the reality
that's a person who becomes vegan today
a lot of people who become vegan want to
pretend these problems are already sold
rather than looking and any
on a self-critical way about what are
the problems what are we actually doing
to solve them what is the future get a
mean for any of us or all of us all
right now coming back to the particular
puzzle I want to address in this video
now that I've basically grounded this
with just just two little line charts in
how dire and how terrible the situation
is and that it's getting worse every day
and that it has gotten worse and worse
by the millions of animals within our
lifetime since the year 2000 in reality
the situation has gotten worse and worse
and worse and this by the way I've made
charts like this even for countries like
Taiwan that have a very well-organized
vegan minority very vocal very public
very visible vegan presence in Taiwan
but guess what meanwhile the
intensification the expansion the
efflorescence of animal agriculture has
continued alongside that even in these
intensely Buddhist countries like Taiwan
Sri Lanka Thailand all of them okay the
number of animals being killed per day
has increased it increased within our
lifetimes okay
what used to be a Western technology of
factory farming has been more and more
globalized it's happening in Africa it's
happening in Asia and it just increased
in scale within the United States within
Europe that is our generation that's
what's going on right now that's the
trend veganism is not the trend all
right I wish it was but like I say I'm
not here to sell you phony good news I'm
not here to sell you false hope and to
me that's anti-vegan to me what the the
distinctive thing that marks us vegan
that unifies us that shows who's really
vegan and who's not is that you are
willing to face up to that truth
witnessing that truth and admitting it
to yourself how terrible and how
terrifying it is being a witness to the
grim reality of animal agriculture at a
massive scale that's what makes us vegan
that's what we have in common
not bicycles not bikinis not yoga not
even you know your food preferences
now ah so I got this letter about
killing cockroaches I'm gonna read it to
you from a regular viewer this guy lives
in Los Angeles
I am leaving him anonymous for obvious
reasons because if I said who he was he
would receive hate mail the same way I
receive hate mail for daring to admit
that these are real issues that matter
in veganism so he writes I just listened
to your last video the one about rats
so that's referring to a video that says
vegans kill rats in the title and that
like this video has a somewhat nuanced
and sophisticated argument that many of
my fellow vegans completely missed the
point of he says you know you know what
it raises the thought that always comes
to me over and over again with so many
varying beliefs feelings opinions within
the spectrum of those who call
themselves vegans who ultimately defines
veganism personally I relate to what
you're saying in that I killed the
cockroaches that come into our house I
remove all other insects with a glass
jar but from my understanding now they
have the potential to contaminate our
food and to bite us and cause infections
especially if left to multiply I've gone
back and forth sometimes and I feel
really guilty and wouldn't kill one
outside the home and if you have even
taken a few out in glass so it means
capturing the the insect alive and
putting outside in class but what you
say about real life situations versus
idealism resonates with me even with
[ __ ] growing some of your own food
which I have been doing for over a year
now you kill and cause harm and
disruption to the countless creatures in
the earth like if you really just put
down your $50.00 raw vegan cocoa goji
berries from some [ __ ] Santa Monica
Juicery and look at the actual earth you
see it's teeming with life and the
nicely manicured lawn you're sitting on
is probably the site of a weekly
massacre when the gardener's come
through I was climbing a tree the other
day to pick lemons and realize that just
crushed tons of ants on the branches
I'm not going for the whole well animals
get killed in the harvesting of brains
so let's just eat meat argument but what
I am saying is that this is still a
reality - at the very least acknowledge
ok now I do not think killing
cockroaches is good I do not think it's
ok I do not think it's morally neutral I
think it's part of reality that's worth
talking about that's worth acknowledging
because the alternative is to be in a
state of denial the alternative is to
write ideological propaganda that has no
connection with the real lives we're
living with the real challenges we're
facing and that's not what I want for
you can ISM to be you know this reminds
me in parallel to Gary Fran Sione and
Gary Fran Sione I mean he seems to me
like someone who would rather be right
than win he would rather be correct in
an abstract sense that has nothing to do
with reality than to actually make a
difference so for Francia know what I'm
alluding to here is his refusal to get
involved with what he calls single issue
causes his refusal compromise with and
form coalition's with people who are non
vegan right so as we pointed out in
earlier videos if you actually want to
save the Dolphins where you're living I
like to use the example of river
dolphins that we haven't Laos who do you
actually have to collaborate with
obviously you can't have a tiny minority
of people like vegans it can't be the
vegans alone who try to save these
dolphins you're going to form a
coalition with other people who care
about you know habitat conservation wild
animals you're gonna work with all kinds
of other people who are not vegan who
happen to care about this single issue
dolphins now Francey only has his
reasons for being a sort of ultra
skeptic about single issue causes and
they're worth urine I'm not I'm not
saying his arguments are not worth
hearing at all but making a political
difference in reality can indeed involve
a myriad of such single issue causes
whether it's saving the whales saving
the dolphins shutting down a particular
laboratory that engages in vivisection
creating particular laws that limit
vivisection etc like if you want
that's a law that limits vivisection
obviously the vast majority of people
who support that law will be non vegans
and the majority people who really
matter who can make a difference will
themselves be research scientists or
retired research scientists who have
inside knowledge of how the system works
and you can really help your cause in a
crucial way I have no idea how anyone
can be stupid enough to watch this
channel and think that I'm Pro
vivisection when that's a set of
examples I've discussed in depth from
day one on this channel from the very
first video talking about veganism on
this channel I've mentioned that I
mention my own experience talking about
vivisection with professors inside
universities the difficulties
surrounding those issues the
difficulties of actually making a
difference but on a deep level you have
to ask yourself are you interested in
actually making a difference or are you
just interested in being right even if
being right means adhering to an
abstract principle like Gary France a
honest version of abolitionism that
actually prevents you for making a
difference to me there's a sort of piety
that suffuses Gary Francey on his
approach where it's about it's about
moral purity and it's not about winning
okay and my perspective is not the care
franciotti is totally wrong about
single-issue causes but that these
things are not mutually exclusive you
can be a vegan you can be an
abolitionist vegan and you can also be
involved with single issue causes for
example you can be a vegan and you can
also be a member of a charity to save
the whales to save some dolphins you can
also be a member of a group that's
lobbying to shut down a particular
vivisection lab or to pass a particular
law that may for example only help
primates you know well from Francie
honest perspective that speciesism he
wants to be right he wants to be morally
pure Gary France aione wants you to
treat the life of a rat as equal to the
life of a monkey well on a purely
theoretical level on the level of having
a debate in a university
I can recognize that as a meaningful
conversation half is a rat worth more or
less than a monkey is a cockroach worth
more or less than a monkey and Francie
on his camp and many vegans would
literally subscribe to the view that you
know is truly religious in nature it's
similar to you know some views that
existed in Buddhism that all life is
sacred and that the life of a cockroach
literally is equal to the life of a
monkey or human being we're all rats
from that perspective and therefore but
this is this is the part that's a false
inference therefore they would demand to
know how dare you try to save the
monkeys
well you're not saving the rats you know
lab rats being tortured as opposed to
monkeys mean torture and and the reality
is the the gruesome terrible truth is
look you can be right what I want is to
win what I want is to make a difference
in the real world and I'm one human
being even if a more organized with a
group of supporters maybe were ten human
beings maybe were twenty and we can only
make differences one thing at a time we
can be vegan that's a change we can all
make today that's why it's a wonderful
cause to promote whites empowering etc
okay but if we get organized we can't
save all the rats and save all the
cockroaches and change all the laws we
have to look at one law at a time and
yes you know a law that addresses just
primates and labs is not gonna help deal
with what happens to wild bears that's a
real concern here in Canada you know
does the government just shoot and kill
wild bears or do they tranquilize them
and relocate them to uninhabited areas
of the wilderness I think that's a
crucial issue for vegans and I'm sorry
for myself I don't know anyone who talks
about it or cares about it I don't know
why you know but that's a real problem
because it comes the real price tag we
have empty land here in Canada to
relocate bears to but it costs a lot of
money for the government to provide that
sort of service very straightforward
ethical question but I mean you know
these are the real issues you deal with
and it to me it is the most
self-defeating thing in the world to say
well how can you save bears
how can you say
monkeys and ignore rats you know for
example why are you why are you involved
with a single-issue cause just to save
these bears when at the same time the
local city government is killing rats in
huge numbers every day we should say you
know I wish I wish this was a you know
whole ridiculous hypothetical example
these are the real issues that divide
Ricans 2016 these are the real issues
and there are people who will attack me
in this video for coming out and
admitting killing cockroaches is an
issue it's an issue within a vegan ISM I
think the vast majority of vegans who
live in a hot climate do kill
cockroaches now okay really quickly I
used to live in Southeast Asia and
countries like Laos Cambodia Thailand
you man
where cockroaches were a part of my life
I do not fear cockroaches I do not even
find them disgusting there in Southeast
Asia we have cockroaches that are
beautiful the huge cockroaches with
wings I can remember saying to my
girlfriend she was also Canadian look
you know if you could have some
detachment about it these cockroaches
are not any less beautiful than
butterflies you know why do you why do
you find a butterfly why why don't you
find a butterfly revolting and scary but
you do find a carbonyl in Syria so there
were huge [ __ ] remember some were were
black with yellow stripes like a tiger
stripes on their back different shapes
and sizes and I went through different
periods of trying to either not kill
them at all trying to capture them in a
glass and put the mutts up and they're
alive and sometimes especially like when
I was living in France sometimes looking
at the whole situation I really had no
choice but to kill cockroaches so I did
look for alternatives but sometimes when
there were no alternatives like well I
got to deal with cockroaches and in
these circumstances the best way I can
deal with it now in France that was
probably because there was no outside
from hitting that apartment there was no
way for me to there was there was no
outside for me to take advantage of to
put this covered aside and also because
the actual circumstances chained and
even the species of cockroach had
changed I couldn't catch those
cockroaches
and I had a real problem when I was
living in the South of France with
what's Dubeau cockroaches so when I was
in the South of France specifically I
was a vegan who was actively killing
cockroaches and I met and talked to
other vegans about it when I was there
and actually actually in that town I
didn't know they have any vegans but I
know two guys who are the opposite
extreme one of whom was a lifelong you
know we'll sorry nobody's a lifelong
vegan activist be a vegan activist for
more than ten years um you know he'd
done a lot of every kind of activism and
organization and he just admitted to
himself look this is part of life if he
wants to live in that climate in the
South of France killing cockroaches as
part of his real life and there was
another guy there who actually who owned
a vegan Reza managed he was the manager
for a vegan restaurant not the owner um
he was the opposite extreme where he
would actually stop us and lecture us
that we shouldn't kill cockroaches I can
remember him very passionately handing
us leaflets that explained the latest
scientific research about how
intelligent cockroaches are that they do
feel pain etc which I completely believe
probably cuz of read research about ants
intelligence the level of intelligence
that we now know in ants is shocking and
that has changed there is research
that's come along etc etc now the point
of my earlier video that has the word
rats in the title is vegans vegans kill
rats the point of my earlier video was
actually about tolerance and the people
who have attacked me for daring to make
that video what's ironic is that they
lack exactly the virtue that was
preached they have shown exactly how
intolerant they are so what I said in
that video is look I don't want to be
right I don't want everyone to agree
with me or admit that I'm right I'm
telling you something here that's
genuinely edgy it's genuinely shocking
generally gives vegans a reason to stop
and reconsider their own beliefs in
their situation be the easiest thing in
the world to just come on YouTube and
repeat the same garbage everyone else
says
repeat the same vague hopes for a better
future or something I want to talk about
what's really real my point was if you
disagree with me that's fine if you
really sincerely believe that vegans
should never kill rats under any
circumstances the vegans should never
kill cockroaches any circumstance that's
fine I'm not asking you to say that I'm
right what I'm asking you to do is
tolerate me and this is the ultimate
sense in which vegans are defeating
themselves
I've asked question before do you want
to be right or do you want to win I
understand why it's hard for vegans who
are opposed to vivisection to cooperate
with scientists who may be shall we say
moderately oppose scientists who believe
that vivisection is okay within limits
they want to see less vivisection they
want to see less wasteful vivisection
may be able to give a really meaningful
example they may want to see the
elimination of the for-profit industry
from vivisection to make vivisection non
profit as opposed to some that's
motivated by money that brings about a
profound change in how an industry works
even brings profound change in how an
area of science works or how a
department in the university works there
are all kinds of limits they might want
to impose in possession while they may
believe as scientists that continued
vivisection is essential to the progress
of science can you cooperate with those
people can you run a foundation can you
as a vegan with your vegan friends sit
down at a boardroom table and learn from
those people and try to make a real
change in your community in your
university in the research labs in your
city at your city hall in passing laws
that really make a difference for the
suffering of animals that actually
exists in real cages where it's not an
ideal where it's not an excuse you evoke
during your beach vacation or it's not
just you know the drum beat in the
background
well you film yourself smiling and
laughing and dancing on the beach and
going to expensive restaurants and
eating raw food and bragging about
weight loss and how your acne cleared up
and how your sinuses are better and how
your asthma
is better in all this [ __ ] when
we're actually talking about an eighth
in a cage are you willing to make that
compromise to learn from people and
cooperate with people who have
fundamental ethical differences what
scares me is that I can see the people
involved veganism today in 2016 are
incapable of making those compromises
and are incapable of making those
differences because they're incapable of
even sitting down a cooperating with me
a vegan who is willing to admit that
killing cockroaches is part of life
becomes a pariah a vegan who is willing
to admit that killing rats is part of
life not saying it's good not saying
it's okay but saying it's inevitable
saying this is a contradiction I can
acknowledge and I can talk about within
veganism is a pariah in 2016 but guess
what I won't be a pariah in 2025 this
movement is going to change because it
has to change yoga pants' can't be the
future of this movement now saying it
shouldn't be saying it can't be bicycles
and beaches and [ __ ] cannot be the
future of this movement it won't be
because it can't be and as veganism
grows as veganism becomes a crucial part
of ecology in general we're gonna get
people who are sincerely interested in
making a difference and who care more
about making a real-world difference
than they do about merely being right